So, now we're gonna move
on to our desktop layout.
And to remind you what that looks like,
Here we are.
Okay, so we've got our mobile layout,
we've got our tablet layout.
Now we're going to our desktop layout.
Does anyone have any ideas about how
we might lay out our desktop layout?
>> You could use a single column grid or
you could use a flex with
a direction of column.
>> Yeah, there's two possibilities.
So we could do a grid-based layout.
We just have one column,
we have a whole bunch of rows.
And then maybe we'd play
around with some padding or
something to push those images over,
that's one way to do it.
We could do it with Flexbox, maybe.
Okay, and I'm gonna give you a third
possibility of how you could
go about doing this because not everything
requires Flexbox or Grid, okay?
So, let's look at a third
possible way of doing this.
So, I'm gonna make my
screen a little bit bigger.
Okay, I'm gonna try to get it
out to at least 1000 pixels.
All right, and you can watch to your
little number down there at the bottom of
the code pen,
it will tell you how big that window is.
So make sure it's big enough to see
the styles that we're about to add.
All right, that'll end our media query,
we don't wanna take the last
bracket there that ends our layer.
We're going to add another
media query @media and
then this will be
min-width of 1000 pixels.
Okay, so here's one possibility for you.
And as I said, there's nothing
wrong with working with Grid,
with working with Flexbox,
that's all great.
But I wanna show you this as well because
sometimes this is a cool way to do things
depending on what else you
have going on in your site.
So, for my reviews class,
we can simply turn off Flexbox and Grid.
And the way to do that is
just say display: block.
Once you do that, it will go horizontal or
vertical for you right into a column,
there it is.
They just stack on top of each other
automatically just like that, okay?
So, super simple.
And then we can set a width for this.
And 200 pixels is wide enough to give
us kind of what we're looking for here.
Now, what happened, of course?
Why did my first review there,
why did that look so crazy?
Why did these reviews all look different?
What's going on here?
>> The padding.
>> Yeah, the padding, right?
Cuz we put padding on the tablet,
it continues to apply here at the desktop.
So, the first thing we might
wanna do there is we need to list
all of those selectors.
So .reviews, figure:
first-of-type [LAUGH].
We're gonna list them all,
.reviews figure:nth-of-type(2), .reviews.
Figure:nth-of-type(3),
.reviews.
Figure:last-of-type
Padding: 1rem; So, we'll make them
all have the same amount of padding.
>> Could you write that as nth of type n?
>> You might be able to, sure.
So, let's try that.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> I think this is clear because now we
know we're overriding,
all those things that we wrote, but
your shorthand may be
a wonderful way to do this.
So let's try that.
So this is .reviews figure(:)
you want nth of type n.
In other words, all of them, right?
>> Yeah, so you can put small equations
inside of those parentheses in there.
>> Right.
>> And the type will basically
calculate whatever that equation is and
attribute all of the matching elements and
apply the selector or
rather the property value
to those selectors.
>> Right.
>> Nice.
>> So there's a shorthand for you.
Let's just apply it to all of those.
Either one is absolutely fine.
Whatever improves your understanding and
is clearer,
that is absolutely what
you should go with.
But that is a very sweet little
shorthand there, isn't it?
Okay, either one of those works great and
achieves the same effect.
Okay, so that looks pretty good,
our only problem now is we need
to push those those images out
of the box a little bit, right?
Does anyone have any idea how
we might go about doing that?
So, we're talking about .featured-image,
okay?
So let's try some of those things.
Margin-, what?
Left or right?
>> Left
>> Left, and
we'd say something like -1.5 rem.
Okay, cool, very close, very, very close.
But what we're looking for is we're gonna
have a gap over here on the side too.
So, what else could we do?
>> Relative positioning.
>> Aah, relative positioning!
That's an idea, yeah?
So, if I said position, you guys
familiar with relative positioning?
This is craziness.
So, let's just do it this way.
Position: relative.
All right, now, nothing is gonna
happen initially cuz we haven't
told it what to do yet, other than we
just set up the relative position.
Anytime you see that,
what is the question you should ask?
>> Relative to what?
[LAUGH] That's your million dollar
consulting question, relative to what?
What this will do is it will go
back through your HTML hierarchy to
the closest element that has
a position other than static.
Great, what would that be, okay?
Cuz basically, static is the default
position for all of your HTML elements.
So, if we look at our HTML here,
everything has a static position, okay?
So, if we want and I just made my
screen smaller so it switched.
So if we want those images
to be relative to something,
maybe we wanna go back to our aside
with the class of reviews, okay?
So to set this up.
We might go back to our side.
I'm actually gonna put it cuz we can
just put it in our desktop style here.
And we could say position: relative here.
So, our featured images will
refer back to our reviews for
a relative, sort of, anchor point.
And then we can say,
right: 1.5
rem; and whoops!
I did put it on the wrong thing sorry,
[LAUGH].
Not the reviews,
gotta put it on the image right here.
Right: 1.5 rem; there we go.
And that will pull your images right
out of the box just like that and
give you that little bit of space,
so it pulled it to the right.
So the key here with relative
positioning is that you can
move this image around
anywhere on the screen, but
the space that the image
occupied will stay, okay?
As opposed to absolute positioning,
which you may have heard of,
so if I said absolutely position it.
Look at the difference here, here we've
pulled the images out of the normal flow.
We still pulled them over by the side,
but all of those reviews, the quotes,
they collapsed the space that
the images used to occupy.
So, that's what's going on here, okay?
But when we use relative, that space
that the image occupied is preserved.
So, we still get that stack
thing on top of each other.
This is what I mean by there's a lot out
there [LAUGH] for positioning and layouts.
This is very old school, positioning
has been around for a long time.
>> With absolute, it's still looking for
the closest relative, right?
>> Closest relative,
closest absolute, closest fixed.
>> Any of those?
>> Or sticky, anything,
anything other than static.
Okay, so sweet, we now have
this amazing little widget here
that does this whacked out layout
you never thought was possible.
And you wrote all that code and
you actually understand it, yeah?
Yay!
[APPLAUSE]